In this second exercise, we're going to
continue working with the account and
checking classes.
This time we're going to add a savings
class, and
then I'm gonna demonstrate how we can use
one collection
to store multiple objects, and yet have
the program know
which type of the objects are being stored
in the collection.
So let's get started.
First thing I wanna do is I wanna copy our
previous program to a new program.
So we're gonna copy account.py to
savings.py.
And then let's open savings.py.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So here's our previous program.
So let's scroll down to under the checking
account class.
And start a savings account class.
We'll call it savings and it will inherit
from account.
So the first thing we do is create our
constructor, and for this all we need to
do is call the base class constructor with
the arguments account number and balance.
Then we're ready to create our two string
method.
And, it's going to look similar to the 2
string method for checking class.
Except this time, the account class will
be savings, instead of checking.
I also noticed up here for some reason, I
had a semi colon.
Let me take that out.
Bad habits from all my other programming
languages.
Now, return string will include a call, to
the base class two
string method and that's all we need to do
other than return the string.
Now we can define a deposit method,
and a withdrawal method.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Otherwise the balance is equal to the
balance minus the amount.
And with that we should have a complete
definition.
So let's come down to the end of our
working code.
Create a settings account object.
Make a withdrawal.
Display it.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
And then make a deposit, and display it.
And
let's save our program.
Let's see how it looks.
We have a little error in the creation of
our savings account
object so let's go back and look and see
what we did.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Add self right there.
Let's save the file.
Lets clear the screen, try it again.
There we go.
And everything looks like its in place.
We took 250 out, we put 125 back in, so
yes that's right.
So lets go back to the program.
So what we might wanna do is we might
wanna store all these objects in one data
structure.
So we can do that, lets go back a line, by
creating a list
and putting our checking account and our
savings account in the list just like
that.
Now we can loop through the list, just by
using a standard for loop and display each
item.
There's only 2 but you get the idea.
Even though these stored as object, the
python will be able to
understand the type of object and display
the right information based on that.
So lets save lets clear the screen.
And run our program again.
So we have a checking account and we have
a savings account.
Now, before we finish, one more thing
that I'm looking at, thinking about this
program.
Notice that the deposit method is the same
for both classes.
Given that, there's really no reason why
we should have it defined
in either derived class, we should define
it in the base class.
And that way, we can just use it as-is in
each of the derived classes.
So let's cut that right there.
And let's go back to the account class and
add deposit right here.
There we go.
This is gonna do it for one, just like
that.
So save the file, now let's run it again.
We shouldn't see any difference.
And we don't.
We've made our code easier to understand,
and
easier to maintain, by moving deposit out
of
checking and saving, since it's the same
method
for both ,and putting it in the base
class.
That wraps up this chapter on inheritance.